
Profile format notes
----------------------
HM 21 Apr 00

A "kmix" profile is a matlab structure with some or all of the
following fields.  (This is basically just a matlab version of 
the klayers output GENLN2/ kcarta input profile format.)

  glist   ngas vector of HITRAN gas IDs
  mpres   nlay vector of combined gas layer pressures, atm.
  mtemp   nlay vector of combined gas layer temperatures, K
  gamnt   nlay x ngas array of gas amounts, kmole/cm^2
  gpart   nlay x ngas array of gas partial pressures, atm.
  gpres   nlay x ngas array of single gas pressures (opt.)
  gtemp   nlay x ngas array of single gas temperatures (opt.)
  pbound  (nlay+1)-vector of pressure layer boundries (opt.)

Pressures are assumed to be in decreasing order; thus for example
for calculations that begin at the surface, mpres(1) will be the
first layer above the surface.

For upwelling radiance calculations, we can add fields for surface
temperature and wavenumber dependent emissivity.

  stemp   scalar surface temperature, K
  emiss   nemis vector of surface emissivities
  efreq   nemis vector of emissivity frequencies


klayer output (GENLN/kcarta input), from Scott's klayers docs:
---------------------------------------------------------------

 Header comments: an arbitrary number of lines each starting with a "!"

 NPATH
   The number of paths = number of gases * 100.

 Loop over ipath=1,NPATH

   Two comment lines specifying the gas type, path number, layer boundary
   altitudes and pressures, thickness, and angles (always 0)
   GASID, AMOUNT, T, DELTA_T, P, DELTA_P, PARTIAL_P, ALTITUDE

 where
   GASID is the HITRAN gas ID
   AMOUNT is the layer integrated gas amount (kmole/cm^2)
   T is the layer average temperature (K)
   DELTA_T is the chenge in temperature across the layer (K). Note: not used
   P is the average layer pressure (atm).  Note: profile independent
   DELTA_P is the change in pressure across the layer (atm).  Note: not used
   PARTIAL_P is the partial pressure of the gas (atm).  Note: only used for H2O
   ALTITUDE is the approximate altitude of the center of the layer (km)


